# Binary Star System Data (CS289A Project S Early)
This is a dataset for a fictional universe - a binary star system. There are two "suns", one "Earth" and one "moon" in this system. Two "suns" are orbiting each other in a circular orbit with a diameter of 0.2 AU. The mass of each fictional "sun" is half of the real solar mass. The fictional "Earth" ("moon") orbit is set to be close to the real Earth (moon) orbit as much as possible. All orbits are in the same plane. The time zero is when four planets are collinear, while the "Earth" is at perihelion and the "moon" is at apogee.

## Group Member
Zheyu Lu   
Rui Liu   
Shuqi Xu   

## Data Format
Our data consists of two parts:

1. Trajectories of the two suns, the Earth and the moon over a 10-year span.
2. Observations of the two suns and the moon from the Earth.

### Trajectories
Trajectories are generated by 4-body simulation using Mathematica. The positions of all four planets are presented in a cartesian coordinate system, whose origin coincides with the mass center of the two suns. All dynamics are within xy-plane. We also include z-axis data, which should be all zero, in case people want to include z-axis motion in future. The data are stored in "/trajectories/coordinates_evolution.csv". Time is in the units of seconds, while coordinates are in the units of meters. The data file has the following formats:

|Time|Sun1_x|Sun1_y|Sun1_z|Sun2_x|Sun2_y|Sun2_z|earth_x|earth_y|earth_z|moon_x|moon_y|moon_z|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|...|

### Observations
There are three datasets: 1_Berkeley.rar, 2_Shanghai.rar, and 3_Sydney.rar. In each of these compressed file, you will find four files: Moon.dat, Sun_A.dat, Sun_B.dat, and local_pos_on_earth.png.

Note: if you want to know how to generate these data files from the very beginning and regenerate them yourself, you could find instructions in the section "How to generate the data" at the end of this file. It is also worthy to note that in our case, you could only use the dataset here shown on Github and could not generate more data, i.e., we do not serve as providing you with an API call to a large external database. These data files are already our whole database.

These datasets are named after the location of the observer on Earth. For example, 2_Shanghai contains data observed by an observer whose location is roughly at Shanghai, China. The exact longitude and latitude information of the observer can be found in local_pos_on_earth.png. The Moon.dat, Sun_A.dat, and Sun_B.dat contains orbital information of the moon and two suns respectively. The details of the data format can be found in the following.

The Raw_picture_data.txt file contains a Google Drive link. In the Google Drive, there are three folders: 1_Berkeley, 2_Shanghai, and 3_Sydney which are corresponding to the above mentioned three observation locations. In each of these three folders, there are three compressed files Moon.rar, Sun A.rar, and Sun B.rar which contains all the raw picture data we used to generate the above mentioned data file Moon.dat, Sun_A.dat, and Sun_B.dat respectively.

#### local_pos_on_earth
The local_pos_on_earth.png file contains the information of the observer's location on earth, including the latitude and longtitude.

#### Sun_A, Sun_B
Sun_A.dat and Sun_B.dat contains the observation information of the two stars SunA and SunB in our binary star solar system.
For each file, the record follows the format below:
Figure index, Time, Direction(azimuthal angle), Height(polar angle), Apparent size

1. Figure index indicates the corresponding figure for generating this line of data.
2. Time is the absolute time in our fictional universe(No time zone difference).
3. Direction is the azimuthal angle of the Sun observed from the given location in spherical coordinates.
4. Height is the polar angle of the Sun observed from the given location in spherical coordinates.

For Time, the format in the file is: year month day hour minute second   
For Direction, Height, and Apparent size, the format in the file is: degree minute second   

#### Moon
The format is the same as that of Sun_A.dat and Sun_B.dat except that there is an additional data column recording the phase of moon.
The phase of moon should be a number between 0 and 1. However, due to the not high recognition rate of the Optical Character Recognition(OCR) package we are using, this column contains some invalid data.

#### How to generate the data
In order to re-generate our data in the data folder on Github, one needs to follow the following steps:
1. Go to the Google Drive whose link is in the Raw_picture_data.txt under the data folder on Github. There are three folders 1_Berkeley, 2_Shanghai, and 3_Sydney in the Google Drive. In each of these three folders, there are three compressed files: Moon.rar, Sun A.rar, and Sun B.rar.
2. Create three folders on your local PC named 1_Berkeley, 2_Shanghai, and 3_Sydney and download the compressed files accordingly to the three folders, i.e., follow our Google Drive file organization.
3. Unzip all the .rar files. There should be 9 in total, 3 in each folder.
4. Download and copy the three ipynb files Moon.ipynb, Sun A.ipynb, and Sun B.ipynb to all three folders mentioned in step 2. The ipynb files can be found under code folder on Github.
5. In 1_Berkeley folder, run Moon.ipynb, Sun A.ipynb, and Sun B.ipynb and you will get the Moon.dat, Sun_A.dat, and Sun_B.dat data files corresponding to the observation at Berkeley. (Notice: this may take an hour to complete running on a gaming laptop!)
6. In 2_Shanghai folder, run Moon.ipynb, Sun A.ipynb, and Sun B.ipynb and you will get the Moon.dat, Sun_A.dat, and Sun_B.dat data files corresponding to the observation at Shanghai. (Notice: this may take an hour to complete running on a gaming laptop!)
7. In 3_Sydney folder, run Moon.ipynb, Sun A.ipynb, and Sun B.ipynb and you will get the Moon.dat, Sun_A.dat, and Sun_B.dat data files corresponding to the observation at Sydney. (Notice: this may take an hour to complete running on a gaming laptop!)

Note: The Moon.dat, Sun_A.dat, and Sun_B.dat data files you get this way are the same as that in the data folder on Github. This process is just showing you how to generate our data on Github from the very beginning. In practical use, you can directly use our data on Github and do not need to generate it again.
